Objective:

    This project is designed to provide an enjoyable, convenient and rewarding mobile Android platform experience for those with a desire to make a positive impact in their community, and beyond, by helping out and giving back to a variety of charitable causes. The application takes the user’s location in order to generate all registered charitable organizations within a user determined geographical radius. The user will be provided with the standard information regarding each charity such as a brief description, directions to their physical locations, hours of operations and, based on the availability, links to their online presence (website, Facebook, Instagram, etc). Additionally, users will also be provided visual representations of the data regarding the charities past such as funding, expenses, resource allocation, etc. All of this is to help users make an educated decision as whether or not this is a cause they would like to aid, all directly from within the app. Provided sufficient remaining time after the completion of the aforementioned features, the second phase of this project’s development will consist of features which will require uses to either create a profile on the app via their Charity App, Gmail or Facebook accounts. When logged in, users can watch ads provided by Google AdSense which will give them in app points. These points directly translate to the ad revenue generated by the very ads they watched. Then the user can choose which charity they would like to donate their points/ads revenue towards. This provides users who personally don’t have the ability to give back an opportunity to still make the positive impact they desire. The final feature would be a platform which will be a crowdsourced events board where users can schedule/sign up for these charitable events right from within the app. The creator of the events will be asked to provide data such as time, location and category of the event’s cause. In order to make sure these posts are trustworthy, the attending users can rate the event. At the end, the event organizer will get a rating so other users can know in the future whether or not they would like to attend one of their events in the future.


Key Personas:

    Jon Smith, a young tech savvy adult that wants to give back to the world in some way.
    
    Margaret O'Neal, an elderly not so tech savvy woman who wants to give back to her community. She really believes in getting close and personal with the people that she wants to donate too.


Key Scenarios:

    Jon was on his daily commute through the subway station where he sees 3 different homeless people. The first man Jon saw was on the subway platform, playing a broken accordion for spare change.The second, an old woman selling stickers at the exit of the subway station outside his work. And thirdly, man simply with a sign asking for change, saying he was deaf, outside of the Tim Hortons Jon visits every morning. Jon feels bad and does gives whatever spare change he can but feels like he does not want to invest the time it take to make a real impact in changing these people’s lives. But he does want to help so he wants to find a charity in the area whose goal is to help out these people so he can donate money and extra clothing he has. But he is only willing to donate if he is sure  his donations will actually go towards helping the homeless in this community.

    Margaret is retired women with no grandchildren with she has substantial resources from her days as a financial analyst. But nowadays she does not have a lot of things on her schedule and she would like to do something that gives back to the community that she made so much money off of. So she decides she wants to sign up to volunteer to read/teach local orphaned children but she can’t go to far as she is too old to drive. At her age, she gets overwhelmed by the amount of options available when she looks up online for these specific volunteering organizations. So she needs a clean, well organized platform which will help her find her specific charitable cause, right in her local area.


Key Principles:

    Users want to find charities that make observable impact to their lives: One deterrent for those who want to give back is they don’t trust or see their contributions are actually making a difference. The combination of showing charities based in the user’s community along with visualization of how these organization allocate their resources is designed to address the user’s concerns of their donations being misused.

    Users delight over simple and clear interface: Due to the overwhelming number of charities, the design of the user interface must allow for both rapid and effective navigation.The data not being properly organized, will be sufficient to overwhelm and turn off users to using the application.
